Bump @docusaurus/preset-classic from 2.1.0 to 2.2.0 (#19)
flipt-io/docs: configuration/authentication.mdx

---
title: Authentication
description: This document describes how to configure Flipt's authentication mechanisms.
---

## Authentication

<Warning>
Once authentication has been set to `required: true` all API routes will

> require a client token be presented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
require a client token to be present.
```

maybe?

> Login in the UI will require a session compatible authentication method (e.g. [OIDC](#OIDC)) be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI will require a session-compatible authentication method (e.g. [OIDC](#OIDC)) to be enabled.
```

Reviewer: not for this PR, but I wonder if we should start referring to the UI as something like a 'management interface' or similar?

Reviewer 2: Hmmm yeah good shout. The UI feels a little... I dunno. Wrong for some reason.

</Warning>

Flipt supports the ability to secure its core API routes by setting the `required` field to `true` on the `authentication` configuration object.

> Once enabled, all API routes will require a [client token](/authentication/overview#client-tokens) be presented in-order to authenticate the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once enabled, all API routes will require a [client token](/authentication/overview#client-tokens) be presented in-order to authenticate the request.
```

This sentence is kind of a repeat of above in the 'warning' block. WYT?

Reviewer 2: Agreed! 🪓

```yaml config.yaml
authentication:
  required: true
```

When authentication is set to `required`, the API will ensure valid credentials are present on all API requests.

> See the [Authentication](/authentication/overview) documentation for more details on Flipt's API authentication handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Authentication: Overview](/authentication/overview) documentation for more details on Flipt's API authentication handling.
```

It might be confusing to just say the 'Authentication' documentation since this page is also titled 'Authentication'. WYT?

Reviewer 2: I like it

### Session

This section contains common properties for establishing browser sessions via a "session compatible" authentication method. Session compatible methods enable support for login in the UI. The methods below state whether or not they are session compatible (e.g. [OIDC](#method-oidc) is session compatible).

In order to establish a browser session over HTTP (via a `Cookie` header) some configuration is required.

```yaml config.yaml
authentication:
  session:
    domain: "flipt.yourorg.com"
    secure: true
    csrf:
      key: "some_secret_string"
```

When a "session compatible" authentication method is enabled the `domain` property is **required**.
It should be configured with the public domain your Flipt instance is hosted on.

> Otherwise, the other properties are not required to be explicitly configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other properties are not required to be explicitly configured.
```

> However, in order to best secure your instance of Flipt, we advise you run Flipt with `secure: true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to best secure your instance of Flipt, we advise that you run Flipt with `secure: true`.
```

This will require you expose Flipt over HTTPS.
Additionally, we advise you configure a `csrf.key` with a 32 or 64 byte random string of data.

<Card title="Using openssl to generate a 64-byte CSRF key" icon="lightbulb">

```
openssl rand -base64 64
```
</Card>

### Methods

> Beneath the `authentication` section of the configuration file is the `methods` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
IDK if we need this sentence

Reviewer 2: 🪓

Each key beneath this section is a particular authentication method.
These methods are disabled (`enabled: false`) by default.
Enabling and configuring a method allows for different ways to establish client token credentials within Flipt.

#### Method: Token

The `token` method provides the ability to create client tokens statically, with optional expiry constraints.

```yaml config.yaml
authentication:
  methods:
    token:
      cleanup: # (see "Common Properties: Cleanup" below)
      enabled: true
```

Once enabled, static tokens can be created via the [CreateToken](/reference/authentication/create-token) operation in the API.

> Further explanation for using this method can be found in the [Authentication: Token](/authentication/methods#token) documentation section of this site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further explanation for using this method can be found in the [Authentication: Token](/authentication/methods#token) documentation.
```

#### Method: OIDC

<Note>
This is a `session compatible` authentication method.
</Note>

> The `oidc` method provides the ability to establish client tokens via an OAuth 2.0 with OIDC flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `oidc` method provides the ability to establish client tokens via OAuth 2.0 with OIDC flow.
```

> Once enabled and configured appropriately, the UI will automatically leverage it and present any configured providers as login options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once enabled and configured properly, the UI will automatically present any configured providers as login options.
```

```yaml config.yaml
authentication:
  methods:
    oidc:
      cleanup: # (see "Common Properties: Cleanup" below)
      enabled: true
      providers:
        some_provider: # insert your provider name here
          issuer_url: "https://some.oidc.issuer.com"
          client_id: "some_client_identifier"
          client_token: "some_client_secret_credential"
          redirect_address: "https://your.flipt.instance.url.com"
          scopes:
            - email
            - profile
```

> > The above configuration would result in a login option in the UI for `some_provider`.

Reviewer: IDK if we wanna use the `>` as I think that's usually reserved for quotations. We might not even need this line TBH

Reviewer 2: Yeah I will 🪓 it

> Multiple providers beneath the `providers` section of this configuration can be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple providers can be configured simultaneously.
```

> Each will result in a Login option being presented in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each will result in a Login option being presented in the UI, along with a separate endpoint being added in the API to support each provider flow.
```

> Along with a separate space being added in the API to support each providers flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Flipt has been experimented with each of the following providers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flipt has been tested with each of the following providers:
```

- [Google](https://developers.google.com/identity/openid-connect/openid-connect)
- [Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/applications/application-settings)
- [Gitlab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/openid_connect_provider.html)
- [Dex](https://dexidp.io/docs/openid-connect/)

> Though the intention is that it should work with other OIDC providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though the intention is that it should work with other OIDC providers, these are just the handful that the Flipt team has validated.
```

> These are just the handful the Flipt team has validated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Following any of the links above should take you to the relevant documentation for each of these providers OIDC client setups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following any of the links above should take you to the relevant documentation for each of these providers' OIDC client setups.
```

You can use the credentials and client configuration obtained using those steps as configuration for your Flipt instance.

**Example: OIDC with Google**

Given we're running our instance of Flipt on the public internet at `https://flipt.myorg.com`.

> Using Google as an example and the documentation linked above; given we obtained the following credentials for a Google OAuth client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Google as an example and the documentation linked above, we obtained the following credentials for a Google OAuth client:
```

```yaml
client_id: "CyJcdvQMadOjSEx7ArArom0ytrbIHWd2Fb3N59oh8NQ="
client_token: "WGgJmfQqN7cf17dFyZKXDL5S445/qhp+hfDAC0Mnl7oBrxgdAgiMyuwCkPiwfgQy"
```

We could create a provider defintion in our configuration like so:

```yaml config.yaml
authentication:
  methods:
    oidc:
      enabled: true
      providers:
        google:
          issuer_url: "https://accounts.google.com"
          client_id: "CyJcdvQMadOjSEx7ArArom0ytrbIHWd2Fb3N59oh8NQ="
          client_token: "WGgJmfQqN7cf17dFyZKXDL5S445/qhp+hfDAC0Mnl7oBrxgdAgiMyuwCkPiwfgQy"
          redirect_address: "https://flipt.myorg.com"
          scopes:
            - email
            - profile
```

<Info>

> Additional, `scopes` are not 100% necessary. However, adding them will result in Flipt being able to identify more details about your users. Enabling us to present personalized greeting messages and user profile pictures in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional `scopes` such as `profile` are not 100% necessary, however, adding them will result in Flipt being able to identify more details about your users such as personalized user profile pictures in the UI.
```

</Info>

Once this configuration has been enabled a `Login with Google` option will be presented in the UI.
Clicking this button will navigate the user to a Google consent screen.
Once the user has authenticated with Google, they will be redirected to the address defined in the `redirect_address` section of the provider configuration.

<Tip>
Google's consent screen can be configured to only accept accounts who are within your Google Workspace organization.

Other providers have similar mechanisms for attentuating who can leverage this authentication flow.
</Tip>

#### Common Properties: Cleanup

Each authentication method contains a nested `cleanup` configuration object.
This object configures the periodic deletion of _expired_ authentications created with the associated method.

```yaml config.yaml
authentication:
  <method>:
    cleanup:
      interval: 10m
      grace_period: 24h
```

The cleanup object currently contains two keys `interval` and `grace_period`.
The `interval` is used to configure how frequently a delete _expired_ tokens action is performed.

> Whereas, `grace_period` is used to ensure that _expired_ tokens are preserved for at-least this configured duration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whereas, `grace_period` is used to ensure that _expired_ tokens are preserved for at least this configured duration.
```

This allows you to keep authentications around for auditing purposes after expiration.
Expired tokens are instances where the `expires_at` timestamp occurs before the current time.
The grace period is added onto this timestamp as a predicate, when the delete operation is made.

Tokens, when presented as a credential to the API, which have expired (`expires_at` is before `now()`) will begin immediately failing authentication.
The `grace_period` is simply for the cleanup process.

> 

Reviewer: Nit: can we remove some newlines above?
